---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/
title: Collaborative Science
subtitle: ""
date: "2020-07-13"
external_link: ""

summary: Collaborative projects across multiple disease areas.

image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false
slides: ""
tags:
- infectious-diseases
- collaborative-science
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""
links:
---

# HIV vaccines

## Correlates of HIV-1 risk

While we do not yet have a broadly efficacious vaccine against HIV-1,
clinical trials of HIV-1 vaccine candidates can identify potential
correlates of risk or of protection. These correlates are measurable
signs that a person is at risk of or is protected from infection by
HIV-1, respectively. In this work, I collaborated with Peter Gilbert and
others affiliated with the [HIV Vaccine Trials
Network](https://www.hvtn.org/en.html) to analyze data from the [HVTN
505](https://www.hvtn.org/en/community/community-compass/vol19-issue1/hvtn-505-recap.html)
clinical trial. We identified three antibody features that inversely
correlated with HIV-1 infection risk. This may help in designing future
HIV-1 vaccines.

# Surrogate endpoints for cytomegalovirus disease

We used a combination of classical statistical methods and ensemble-based machine learning to assess various viral load kinetics as potential surrogate endpoints for cytomegalovirus disease after transplant. We found that mean, peak, and change in viral load over the first five weeks of treatment fulfilled the Prentice criteria for surrogacy and captured a large proportion of the treatment effect in two randomized, controlled trials.

# Non-vaccine HIV prevention

## Characteristics associated with HIV risk in young South African women

This study is based on data from the HIV Prevention Trials Network
(HPTN) trial 068. In this work, we aimed to identify factors associated
with age-discordant partnerships (one partner greater than 5 years older
than the other) and examine the association between partner age
discordance and HIV risk in young South African women. We found that a
history of age-discordant partnerships is associated witih greater odds
of reporting HIV risk factors. This is joint work with [Tiarney
Ritchwood](https://fmch.duke.edu/profile/tiarney-ritchwood), Jim Hughes,
and others.

## HIV treatment as prevention

HPTN 063 was a clinical trial that aimed to examine potential HIV
transmissions and the frequency of bacterial sexually transmitted
infection (STI) acquisition among an international group of HIV-positive
individuals in HIV care. The long-term goal was to inform
treatment-as-prevention programs and provide ways of evaluating the
potential impact of such programs. We found that there were substantial
numbers of both estimated HIV transmissions and STIs, despite sampling
individuals in HIV care. This suggested that augmenting secondary
prevention interventions may be a means to decrease HIV incidence. This
is joint work with [Steven
Safren](https://people.miami.edu/profile/sas436@miami.edu), Jim Hughes,
and others.

# Cancer treatment

## Optimizing cancer treatment strategies using single-cell data

In this work, our goal was to develop an algorithm for optimally
assigning patients to cancer treatment strategies. We leveraged data
from single-cell mass cytometry to: automatically determine
subpopulations of cells; create a nested effects model to infer gene
hierarchy based on perturbation effects due to administered drugs; and
create a scoring and ranking algorithm that identifies the minimal
number of drugs among a combination of drugs with teh maximal desired
intracellular effects. This is joint work with [Sylvia
Plevritis](http://med.stanford.edu/plevritis.html), [Benedict
Anchang](http://med.stanford.edu/plevritis.html/People), and others.
